All right, that is take four. Hello guys. Uh what we are attempting to do today is we've got this U API which is a default repo on GitHub that you can use to create your projects. And over here I've got my casting. We are in the U online app. And you can see that it starts with nothing because the app isn't about what's in it. It's about what you can create with it. We have um a GitHub URL here that we can download. This is Lex's Up demo. So, you can see that came in pretty quickly. That's because I've already downloaded the zip file and I've already um unc uncompressed and transpiled the code. Anyway, you can grab different colors and have a good old time in here painting. And when you're done, you can go ahead and hit close. We can now add a release URL. If you use alpha, it um doesn't look for tags. Um, and in fact, let's just go ahead and press the It's weird. My um, can I switch? Close reopen. Okay, let's go ahead and delete that. Add an alpha URL because this one is not going to have tags and releases on GitHub. And we're just going to go ahead and type in U online. So, it's the username first. And then the repo name is U API. There really isn't a good reason to have this one, but you can imagine if this was your own repo and you were developing it, having an alpha would be nice. And so when I click on this, it's going to first download the zip and then it's transpiling. You can see that happening there. When it's done, it runs the JavaScript. Of course, there is literally nothing in this because we haven't built the hello world set yet. But what I'd like to do is with the default API have a built-in hello world so that you know it's working. So let's go ahead and close the virtual machine. Uh make sure not to accidentally hit that minus button. And we're going to switch back to our computer. And over here we're going to add a TypeScript file to our GitHub. Now, I've already gone into um code VS Code and I created a new window, pressed the clone git repository, pasted in the URL, which is literally just this URL from up here. And that allowed me to download this and uh have it cloned to my computer. And then from here, because I'm logged in, and you can log in as you're like doing this, it'll ask you to log in. Um I can commit changes. So, let's create a new file. So, from here, we're just going to go ahead and click the new file button. We're going to name this one hello world.ts. There we go. Make sure to include thets. It's always important. We can see this little uh u indicating that we need to sync this. But let's first write our code. So the first thing we need to do is start. So we need some form of start which is a function. So let me start by writing the word function. Start parenthesis curly braces. We can then register start and then pass in the start function. And then what register start does is it makes it so that main when it calls run start will actually run this start. And so on start we want to make the console visible and we have a U API for that. And there's a ton in here, but uh just like, you know, learn one thing at a time. And we're going to be changing this, so just like it's going to get better. Um and also break a bunch of stuff. It's the thing about being in alpha. Um here we can see our console. And there's export visible. So I guess we want to use this visible. And if I double click on it, cuz I made this a while ago, let's take a look. There's a boolean for whether it's visible. And there's options for where do you want to place it. If you don't specify where, it's going to place it at the center of the world, which I believe is where we spawn in. So, that's not ideal. Let's try that first and then we can fix it before um we are done. So, we're just going to go onstart console dot vis. Oh, not console. Wait, was it did we actually did I is this a mistake? We exported it as in world console. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I was a little worried there for a second that I called it console. I was like, wait, you cannot do that. In world console.visible. Um, notably, if you are using this, we're going to set this to true. If you are using this in world console, then we can say console. Sorry, just brain catch up first. Do hello world exclamation point. There we go. We got our hello world set up. Um, but if you are using this console, note that it is per virtual machine. So you will not get console logs from the like higher level virtual machine that started this virtual machine because there's multiple. And we do theorize that one day we might have several virtual machines. So instead of um just running Oh, move my mouse down. [laughter] Instead of just running like the world, you could have somebody developing a small toy that you play within a world and that's its own virtual machine. And so the consoles are specific to their virtual machines. Um, at some point we might go and like make a global console so you can see all of them, but we have not done that yet. So, it's just like maybe one day. That's a good idea. But, uh, all right, I'm getting in. We'll go ahead and float over. Oh, right. I've got to sync it. So, let's uh do that real quick. Uh, go to the branch. Go ahead and I have to type in a message. So, added um in world. I got to actually type this through my nose hole. Set the headset down. Added in world console and hello world log. All right. And then press commit. That is needs to be synced. So we'll sync that change. Press. Really? Do I have to do this every single time? Um I'm going to have to make sure to do this. Let's pause my screen recording. Sorry. All right. I pressed always allow. So hopefully I never have to do that again. All right, so that has now synced. And if we head back over to GitHub and press commandr to refresh, you will see that there is now hello world.ts. Now if we come back to our preview here, the way an alpha build works, which is what you'll do if you want to build your own code, is it's going to reddownload the zip and ret-ranspile every single time you press this button. Whereas something like you paint, which has tags. So you see this V1, that's the tag on um GitHub if you're not familiar with that. Just a real quick GitHub. We'll head to back to you online, go to our repositories and go to the U paint. And you'll see that there are tags, which is basically the versions or the releases. And so you can create a new release and then give it the tag v2. So you just create new tag and then title is what we use for the name. And that will correlate into the application as you see here with that V1. That's where that V1 comes from. And then we're checking the tag on these release URLs to see if it's changed. So when there's a V2 release, we go we go to GitHub, we say, "Hey, what's what's the current version?" And it says V2, then it redownloads the new zip. And then you have to retranspile. But for an alpha, we just always do that because there's no way to know um there's no version number we can check. All right. So, that's going to download. You'll notice there is some headlock today. Uh, we got a weird crash. I'll have to look into that one. Um, let's see. I think I can just reopen the app. I was just mentioning that there is some headlock when downloading. Um, that happens from time to Well, no, that happens intentionally. We're going to fix that. Um, it's just because we're not currently running downloads async. So, when you're downloading it, headlocks. Go ahead and press that. It's going to headlock again. and crash every single time. Apparently, maybe we have an issue with the alpha button. Open the app one more time. Um, I really don't want to just like keep crashing, but it is nice that it's reproducible. That tends to indicate that there's a failure. We haven't fully tested this alpha as much as I'd like. Come on, work this time. Work this time. Okay, there it worked. Cool. All right. So now it's going to spawn a console right where we spawned in. So I back up. There's the console. Um you'll notice on the left that's how many seconds into the world. So 0.02 seconds into the world starting it says hello world. Um that's pretty great. Let's step this up a notch. Um and go ahead here and move it because the location was really bad. So we'll say comma and then we need to create a position. So we say new vector 3 parenthesis and we want this to be zero on the x I think 1.5 on the y so it's a little bit higher and we want the z to be forward and in gau forward is reversed. We might at some point honestly reverse this just from our APIs because it's so unintuitive. But to go forward you actually have to go backwards or like what you would normally consider to be backwards. So, we use minus 1.5. Press save. And then we'll go ahead and commit. And oh, I forgot to put in a thing. It needs a comment. Um, do I need to write it here? I don't actually know if I can write it here. Please enter the commit message for your changes. Line starting with pound will be ignored. Ah, so the pounded lines are ignored. So, I can just write uh come on, let's think. um moved position of console to be more user friendly. Period. Commit. Save. Sync changes. There we go. And if we head back over to our GitHub and we click on hello world, we can now see that the vector is there. It's so good. All right. So now let's go ahead and download that. Um, hoping this video feed's coming through nicely. So, we just press that again. It's might crash. I'm just kind of like hoping a computer. Hey, look at that. Spawned nicely. Um, let's go ahead and restart the application. Sorry, little hair in my eye. Move that around. I'm like planning for a haircut soon. Um, all right. So, we're going to quit the app. I was like, wait, it didn't just open because the app hasn't crashed. Um, buttons. I'm not used to these new menu systems. There it is. Still getting used to Meta's new UI. All right. So, we load in. And by default, it's going to pop up the menu after everything's finished loading. We can then press this one. And eventually, we'll add some nice nice loading screens and stuff. And so, hello world appears in a nice location. And it's perfect. You can see it took slightly longer to go. That's kind of funny. Um, but yeah, there we are. I've [laughter] do we keep going? Things are going well. [laughter] Um like for the most part, you know, it's an alpha, so things breaking and not working is to be expected. It's It is frustrating because I think it is a race condition. I've got a note in my to-do list to try and make it better. Um but there's this weird race condition that's been happening where it just sometimes doesn't it just crashes the app. Does it? Is that what's happening? No. What I'm seeing on the console, uh, if we run over to GDO where I have my console logs coming through, you can see this running start which tells me what's happening. I'll actually see this happen twice and I've got an error code that or a console log that posts that says it ran twice. And so, um, it's curious. It's very curious because I'm definitely not seeing that here when it was crashing. Although this is a brand new version, but [sighs] I'll investigate later. [laughter] Um, completely off topic. I'm heading down to AWE like tomorrow. Literally driving down. So, I'm just like planning to be slightly busy. So, this is like I'm making a quick tutorial so you guys can use this new app. Um, if you are watching this and have not already joined the app um or applied, uh, we have a new invite link I'll put in the description which allows you to apply. It's valid for 90 days. So, that link will eventually expire um, and then we'll have to re-update it. So, look for like a newer video. But the um the main thing is it allows you to apply, but also apply at our our Google form uh is my recommendation, although I don't know that it will be necessary, but it would be helpful to be able to like contact you, add you to our Discord stuff. So, definitely try to do both. I'm debating whether or not I I will add somebody to the alpha if they've only just applied. Maybe if I know who they are, like if you're in my Discord, I'm like, I know that person, maybe. [laughter] But do use the the uh Google form to apply and not note that you're interested in coding. That's important so that we can um because this is this that's the plan for the rest of the year. Uh this is not supposed to be a public video. Is it a public video? I don't know. But things are going well. So maybe it will be public. If it is a public video, I'll tell you more later. We're going to have another dev Q&A at some point and we've got a lot to share. So we're excited. Um, but we're focusing on making it for developers right now so that you guys can um, help us develop the app by making cool stuff and then we can build it together. So, that's pretty exciting. Okie dokie. Let's go to the next task. So, we've got our hello world set up and it's pretty solid. I love that. Next thing to look at is if we were to make a um like really bad at GitHub, so forgive me. We have the U API and the idea is we want to fork it and make something new. So I'm going to add this to Lakes0o5. So it's a personal one. And you know, I was debating I could put it under the official one. That would be kind of weird though. Yeah, we'll do lakes05. And this project is going to be called um parkour mountain is at least what I was thinking this morning. It's such a like simple name. Parkour Mountain is available. Um a simple mountain you can climb. All right. And create fork. [snorts] So now that we have our parkour mountain, I can now copy this URL. I can head back to VS Code File, new window. Close out of this one since we're not going to change that ever again. Clone git repo. Paste my link in. Then tell it I want to go desktop into my git folder. Select as repository. Um, open that up. Here we are. And now we can start modifying it. And so to start making these changes, what I'd like to do is go to our hello world. Maybe even just rename it. And we will call this one um spawn mountain because that's really the goal. And on start, we need to like start placing blocks. Um we don't need to see a console. It's cool, but like that's not really what we're doing today. So, we can delete that, which means we can get rid of these two. And what we want to do is spawn some primitives and a lot of them. So, I'm thinking we create um some functions. So, this will be called spawn um spawn like a circle. Let's start with that. So, a spawn circle. And we're going to give it a height hi ght which will be a number and we need a radius which will also be a number and then we will call the spawn circle function. So if you're not familiar with coding um this is this is TypeScript. It's my favorite language. Maybe I'll zoom in so it's a little easier to read if you're on your phone. Maybe make this a little bit bigger for you. Okay. And there we go. And so we're going to spawn the circle, which now we need to tell it how high this is. I'm thinking 1.5, maybe even just like 0.5 for the first circle. Um, we need the position. So we'll call this the Y position, which will be another number. All right. So we got our Y position, which will be 0.5. The [sighs and gasps] or actually 0.25. So that the height is uh 0.5. In our app, you can currently um jump 2 m high. So we'll be putting that to the test today. And then radius is going to be let's go with 10. And to spawn a circle um we probably need to know the number. So we'll say um 50 blocks. So the count, count, which will also be a number. And now what we can do is just create a simple for loop. So we say for parenthesis, let I equ= z is less than count. I ++ curly braces. And then we need to know where we're at. So we've got this iterator, which is perfect. And you might remember some math that we're going to remember. I don't remember it very well either, but I do believe it's 2 pi uh we'll comment this out. 2 * pi um equals circumference. Is that right? Does that but that's not important, right? Because we actually just need to use s and cosine. S and cosine create the x and y positions. Yeah. So that's really what we need to do. So we need to take I and throw it into s and cosine. Okay. So now that we know what we're going to do, we need to determine the x and y positions. But we also need to determine how far we are along. So, if we take constant um I like I don't really know what to call this, but we'll call this um um position. Uh I don't know. I don't know. This isn't a really great name. I'll figure out a better name later. If you have a good suggestion, please put it in the comments. I divided by count. So, this is how far we are through. Um and we need to know what that is in radians. So we say um radian position and that is this is going to range from zero to um to one right so it's a percentage [snorts] and might call it percent even and then the radian position to go around a circle is 2 pi if I'm not mistaken so we take math.py pi and we multiply it by two and then we multiply it by our lurp position that tells us our radian position which allows us to say constant x equals and I don't know if it's coine or s but it doesn't really matter. Uh it'll just be reversed if I'm backwards and we can fix it later. So then we pass in the radians and it says a numeric expression that contains an angle measured in radians. Yeah. So returns the cosine of a number. So we'll do radian position command C commandV then do sign and make that Y. Okay. So now that we have that we can say constant position equals new vector 3 parenthesis and we pass in our X. We know our Y is the Y position. And we could add some randomness to this which I think is a good idea but we'll come back to that. Um, let's put a comment that says add random random to Y position. So, we got our Y position and then we got our Z. Okay, so this is not actually Y. This is supposed to be Z. And then [sighs] now that we have our position, we would just want to spawn a cube there. And before we start messing with the height and radius. Oh, right. We haven't used radius correctly. So, this position is actually not a position. It's actually a direction because this is the direction we need to go in out. So, if you set this to zero, that's better. And then we can say constant position equals the direction because this is the direction we want to go do multiplied. And we want to multiply that by our radius. So it gets out by the right amount, which could also use a little bit of random. Add random to Y position and radius. All right. And now that we have our position set up, we can say position.y equals um the Y position. There we go. [snorts] And now we can spawn a primitive there with the right scale. So we say uh spawn primitive is a utility we built. spawn primitive dot cube and parenthesis and the position is our position. The scale is a new vector 3 parenthesis where we'll do one comma and then the height we had set here one. So it's just a regular one by one cube for now. [snorts] And then we need to adjust the rotation. Ooh, was there an easy way to make a random quatronian? So we say quatronian dot from uler and then parenthesis because we want these to look kind of organic. New vector 3 parenthesis no x y is math.random. And if we hover over from uler, I believe it says it's in radians. So it's a little bit different than degrees. And radians range from um 0 to 2 pi like we had just discussed. So we will multiply that by pi which for a cube makes sense because there's really only 90 degrees of rotation of difference on a one by one cube. So then we multiply that by math.pi. All right. So now we've got our Y and then we say zero at the end and that's just going to randomly rotate along the Y- axis. All right, so that's done. Next up, we're going to add the color, which we can do color random hue and alpha transparency. Oh, I forgot we can do alpha. We're not going to do that right now. We'll just make it solid one. Has collider is true. And the type is static as it won't be moving. There is no parent. So we'll leave it at undefined. And we're done. All right. So we've now created our primitive cube. And I would recommend just like writing this line first and start for your first test rather than doing all of this math. But I but I know what I'm doing. So I figured we'd start with something cool. So now we're going to spawn a circle with 50 cubes. And it should should work. Save. Am I missing anything? I think we can delete these comments. Delete. Delete. Delete. And save. Now let's go ahead and sync. So we go to branch. And the message here is [snorts] um basic ring to start. Press commit and sync. All righty. Now we're going to run back over to our app. and we need to get this added. So, we're going to add another alpha URL. This one is under the lakes05 account. So, I type in lakes05 and this is called parkour mountain. P A R K O U R mountain. Uh, capitals don't doesn't matter, by the way, but it does make it look prettier on this menu. All right, go ahead and press. And it's transpiling the code. No crashes. Hey, I didn't realize it was a rainbow mountain. How cool. Um, but yeah, look at that. We've done it. We've spawned our mountain. Very, very cool. I forgot I was going to start with like something greener at the bottom, but yeah, let's add some small changes. Like, let's make some really quick changes to our code. Um, I think the first one that would be really useful is this y position dot uh plus let me set my headset down so it's a little easier. And then we're going to do parenthesis0.5 um times math.random. All right. So, this will make it jitter up and down by 0.5 uh in either direction, which should be good. I also felt like this height could have been a or width could have been a lot wider. And the colors were just so vibrant, which is great, but not for a mountain. So, we're going to start with um I kind of wanted to do shades of green. So, I'm kind of wondering if we can create a random shade of green. So, we say new color parentheses. Our red value will be something like 0.1. Our green value will be 0.25. Let's make this5 and then 0.25 plus parentheses math.random times um 0.75. So that way it ranges from 0 to 0.75. That gets added to 0.25 25 and then comma 0.15. All right. So now our random color is just random shades of green. That should be always green. Like 0.25 should still look green but dark. Very dark. Okay. So we've added random to the Y position. We didn't add random to the radius. Does seem like a good idea. So let's say constant radius. Uh we'll call this the block. Let's see. Block radius equals zero or excuse me, it starts at one as a minimum and then uh 1.5 as a minimum and then add to that with another math.random. There we go. And then we can use block radius in place of two. Paste. Paste and save. And let's go ahead and say um changed color and sizes of ring blocks. commit sync changes. All right, that is done. We'll come back over here and we can just reload that. Okay, really happy this isn't crashing. I might have just jinxed it. Didn't jinx it. Okay, there we go. Sorry, I stretch my neck. Okay, look at that. [laughter] Our first layer looks pretty good. What the heck? What the heck? Oh my gosh. I'm really, really happy with that. That is so much better than I could have expected. Um, you know, we can do better, but holy smokes, we are ready to build a mountain like this. That is so cool. I love math, you guys. I just got to like I love math. I'm so genuinely happy right now. That was so exciting. Um, I'm like, make sure I'm recording. It looks like we're recording. Timer's still going up. Things are still good. Um, let's quickly build it upwards and then jump it and then call that a wrap on this video so it ends a little bit earlier. Uh, this has been amazing. Amazing. And I think you can actually just go and clone this like you can make it your own branch of parkour mountain. So if you go to the U online ui, I think the cool thing here is if you do branch this you will then be a part of this so people can see your branch. Right. Right. I don't know how to see branches. default uh all branches. You know, I don't know GitHub well enough, but I imagine you'd be able to see other people's branches. Anyway, pretty exciting. Pretty exciting. Okay. Um and then if you join our Discord and you're a part of the U alpha, you can also share your URL so we can try it out and test it out. Definitely share some videos. Um cool stuff. Really, really cool stuff. Oh my goodness. I'm so excited. I'm so excited. I can't believe it. I can't believe how good that looked. Okay, so the first thought I had was we need some way to make random colors. So, [laughter] let's start by making random colors. This is just adjusting the parameters. So, we're going to start with that because I think it's the easiest and it's really what defines the mountains look. Um, but there's also this kind of like random block radius. It starts at 1.5. So, it's like block radius. I wonder if we can just do block radius start. And then that's a number that we'll set to 1.5 on this first one, comma 1.5. [snorts] And then we can put the this is the block radius start. Okay. And then I honestly felt like this could have been 2.5 even. But then there's also this block radius multiplier. So I'm going to copy this. Command C, comma, block radius multiplier. Um, which in this case we were using as one, but I kind of want to change it to two. Maybe we'll leave this at 1.5. Um, I think we can increase the height a little bit. So from 0.25 to 0.35 which makes this 7 because this is double that. At least that was kind of the plan. Um probably could adjust those maybe a little bit too. But yeah. So we got our block radius multiplier which is used right here. So we wrap this in parenthesis and then take block radius multiplier times the math.random. [snorts] And then we do the same thing for color. So colors are the same thing. So we say um green color or so start we start with red red color start number and then red color multiplier multiplier number and then we just do that a lot. Um let's copy command C command V command V and then change it to red green blue. So this one is blue. This one is blue. This one is green. This one is green. And then down here we had this being our um red color start plus parentheses red color multiplier times math.random. There we go. And then we can just duplicate this and swap the values. So, command C. And we just got to remember we started with 0.25 on green. Command V. This is the green color. Start. Green. Oops. Messed that up. Scroll a little bit further. Green color multiplier. And one last paste right here. Paste. This is the blue color start. Oops. Nope. [laughter] Can I get this right? Blue color multiplier. Blue color start. All right. Perfect. And then we need to pass those values in. And so we know that it was 0.1 sorry 0.1 and then I think 0.05. And then we go 0.25 comma 1 which was actually 0.75 excuse me. And then we did 0.1 comma 0.05. Perfect. All right. So this is going to slightly change the way this looks. Um we should just test it. Like doing small tests everywhere is good. Um did we add the random to the radius? We did. And we've made it so we can vary it. Um, let's also just go one step further and spawn a second circle. I do feel like it might be wise to make this async. And then we can say, and this is so we can slowly spawn this in so that it doesn't um, you know, kind of lag out. So, what we'll do is say um while parentheses um, I Let's say um count. You know what? We're going to do something slightly different. I'd like to animate this by hand this time around. So, we're going to spawn the circle and then we're going to say await. And then I've got an async utility built in called weight that you can get from the U API. So, async.we. And you just pass in the milliseconds you want to wait. And so, we'll wait um 250 milliseconds. That's not very long. And then we will add our next piece to the puzzle. Command Z and paste. And so this circle is I don't remember how these values work. I think we're just going to fill it out by hand. We can look up if we need recommendations. So spawn circle. The first parameter is the Y position. So we want to move it up. So we'll go up by 0. Excuse me, we'll go up by one. And then the height needs to be 1.5. Really? Does it? Yeah, I think so. Um, one 1.5. Radius is one. What did we use as a radius before? Radius of 7. No, no, we used a radius. Oh, radius is how far out it is. We have different radiuses. I needed a better name that need a much better name. So, yeah, we'll try nine. And then the count will be maybe like 35 or 40. Should be able to keep going down on that block radius start. I kind of want to just copy these values from this point forward. Command C. Command V. But the big difference here is I want to make it darker shades of green. So the green gets darker. So instead of using 0 75, we use 0.5. And that maybe starts at 0.05. So, even our red and greens get darker. Okay. And save. Let's go take a look and see how that looks. Definitely doing this a little bit more manually. Let's uh message um better function and second ring commit. Okay. Sync changes. And then we'll come back over here. Oh, looks like the app might have crashed. That's okay. Let's go ahead and just reopen it. Here we are. Go ahead and open up parkour mountain transpiling. And there we are. There's our two layers. And now I'm realizing we need a way to get out. Those are huge. Um, and they do get darker. It's It's softly darker. It's kind of hard to tell. Even I think there's a couple major changes I want to make. Change one to the second circle is the radius of the blocks. So spawn circle, we have block radius start and block radius multiplier. Block radius start was um right after the count. So this 1.5, let's take that down to 0.5. And then the multiplier, I'll just go to one. And then 40, let's go to 35. And let's go to our radius and go down to eight, maybe even 7.5. And the height felt fine. the darkness felt like it could be darker and like this could be lighter. So, but you know, it's nice to have patches of dark on the ground, but this also felt like it could be wider. So, maybe we go from 1.5 to 2.5 so we get nice wider ones and maybe even move it outward by another meter out and save. All right, let's go ahead and um slight block changes commit sync changes. All right, there we go. Head back in. Go ahead and press parkour mountain. Let's go to download and transpile. And let's see how that looks. Okay. You know, slightly better. Slightly more like what I was going for. I feel like we need more blocks. Um, definitely. You can see jumping up them is kind of there. We do want to make a hole, like a cave entrance. And I think I know what I want to do about that. Interesting how we've got some skinny spots. Not opposed to that, but adding more will also make it thicker. So, let's go to um this. Maybe change that back to 10. Change this from 35 to 45. And um maybe back to 8 rather than 7.5. Just slight changes. The height felt pretty good. Um, and I feel like it could be darker though. We had 0.25 and 0.5. Let's go 025 and 0.25. Save. We'll just say more block changes. Commit sync changes. Okay, there we go. Okay, there it is. Nice. Slightly darker. Um, we definitely have some overlap on the inside. Although the idea isn't that I mean I guess you're going to start on the inside. So, um, we also see like the height on some of these is just not tall enough. So, I'm kind of wondering about that. But, we do need to make a cave entrance. So, the way that I would make a cave entrance, I'm like, wait, the time on this is going to just go up and up and up. I'm sorry. Um, [snorts] there's definitely some ways to automate this so that it creates these numbers by hand and so we don't have to create them. And I'm thinking that's what I need to do for the next set. Um, let's see. Spawn circle. This second circle I just want to make them slightly wider and taller. So our radius we're going to make one. And the height, which one was height? This one. Go to uh two. And our start height we'll do 0.75. And then I want to add a boolean at the end which is going to say has entrance entrance dool. And then these ones we'll set to true, well actually I don't want the ground to be have an entrance, but this one we'll set to true. And then we should build one more on top of this. So we'll do one more. And to make this one just slightly different, we'll just come in to seven blocks in and we'll keep the same height and we are going to take the color and make it darker green. So we go to starting at 05 and then did I get the right one? Yeah, that was green. Um, and this one will also have the entrance. And then from after that, let's uh delete some of this space in here. After that, I'm thinking we'll use a while loop. So, I'll leave a comment that says use while loop to spawn remainder. And we've got our spawn circle. The height here is at 0 75. We need to go up by like one to 1.5. And save. All right. commit. It's going to say added third circle. Commit sync. Really enjoy how easy this is to do. Like surprisingly easy. Um we can't use GitHub forever, but for now maybe I could ask GitHub be like, "Yay, GitHub. Can we just use you forever?" Oh, I didn't add the thing. I added the boolean, but I didn't make it actually spawn the the tunnel. Okay, so there's our second layer. Relatively still easy at this point to climb up. I want it to get harder and harder, though. I feel like these need to be up a little bit taller. It's also a little little too dark. So, let's adjust both of those things. So, let's change the starting point to 1.5 on the green. Uh, was that green? Yeah, that was green. And we need to utilize that boolean to skip. And I'm thinking all we have to do is not spawn blocks. Um so we say if um block radius, excuse me. Um if spawn, what did I call that? What was that boolean called? Has entrance. if has entrance. If so, we want to see if it doesn't have an entrance. So, if it if it has an entrance, if it doesn't have an entrance, but if it does have an entrance, then what we're going to say is or I and I guess we do the alert percent here. we can use that instead. That'll be a little bit um alter up. Um let's add some curly braces real quick. Or if the lurp percent is greater than and we'll make the door, I don't know, like maybe 0.05%. So 5% of the circle. So if we have 50 blocks, 5% is 2 and a half blocks. If we go seven and a half%. So that way it's uh three or four blocks and then so we're saying okay don't spawn for those blocks. Okay, that should make the entrance and we change the color. So we'll say added cave entrance and adjusted height and color. I did actually forget to adjust the height on this one. We want this one to be taller. So we did 1.5. So, let's change that to two, maybe 2.5. And that first value is indeed the Y position. Let's change this to 2.5 and save. All right. Commit. Sync changes. So close. So very close. [snorts] Loading the new code. Yeah. All right. Now, if we had spawned from inside, there's now an entrance. Nice. It's pretty good. That's pretty good. That's a nice size. It's a It's pretty big, but it's a nice size. It also makes you kind of think maybe we should have the grass tiles running through the entire like center area as well. Um, this like I'm referring to this as grass. We also don't have an auto step up feature yet. So, some of these don't like you get stuck here and it's like that's annoying. One day we'll fix it. All right, that jump height was good. Um, are there too many blocks though? That one looks like there might be too many blocks. It's just a lot of little finessing here for um this. So, spawn circle. This one is 45 blocks. We're going to change it to 40. And what was the other thing that was kind of interesting about this? It was Oh, the grass tiles. Um I hope I I'm pretty sure I shared my screen. I'm like I'm [snorts] just going so fast. I'm like just code code. Um we've got spawn circle with 50 blocks. Let's change this to 40 blocks or even 30 because they're so big. Um, and then command C, commandV. This one we'll add another async weight. And then we will say 35. This radius is going to go down to more like five. So it's still like right in the center. They're really big. So maybe we can get away with six. Change this down to like 10. And then command C, commandV. Change this down to like three and five. Command C, command V. And then I kind of want to reverse these so it spawns outward. So it spawns the center tile, then it spawns. So center, then the middle, then the outer ring, and then the it goes upward. Okay. So, we'll say added more grass tiles. Commit sync. All right, switch over. Parkour Mountain loading in. Whoa. Whoa. The little delay is kind of fun. Okay, you got these nice blocks. It feels good. It's not perfect, but it feels good. Um, I feel like the biggest thing that's really missing for me on this to make it feel like parkour is the randomness of the height does not feel good. I feel like that needs to be massively overhauled. So, let's go ahead and change that. And I'm kind of wondering what it's like when you load in the first time. Like, where's the door? Are you like stuck in this cave? Like, what does it look like? Um, so the randomness of the height there was height and radius. Uh, was there not a random height multiplier? How did we do the height? We did height. Wait, wait, did we just do height? So that's why they're all the same. So the only thing we did differently was changing the Y scale. That's what we did differently. So, we need a height multiplier. Let's go height, comma, height multiplier, and that'll be a number. And then right here, when we put in height, we put in plus parentheses height multiplier times math.random. And for now, um, on these, this is the one, two, third parameter. So for the first ones, we liked it as it was. So one, two, three, comma, maybe like 05. Command C for the grass. So one, two. Oh, I put them in the wrong spot, didn't I? I did. Command X. It's the third parameter. Shift Alt F. Um, one, two, three. Yep. So right here. Command V. Command V. And then on these ones, we're going to go a little bit more like 0.5 and or like 0.1 or maybe a full one. Shift alt f command save. All right. Added random height adjustments. Commit sync changes. And then to test this one, because I really want to see which way we're facing when we load into the world, I am going to start by closing the app and reloading the app. And here we are. [clears throat] Now, we'll go ahead and load up Parkour Mountain. Oh, sometimes my hands hit the floor and I just have to press the home button twice. All right. Nice. All right. That feels a little bit more random. I feel like we could add more randomness to this. Um, substantially more in some places, but yeah, that definitely feeling better. Definitely feeling better. Okay. Very good. Very, very good. Very good. All right. And that's when it starts to feel like, okay, it's becoming parkour. it's becoming um difficult, right? So, that's what we were definitely missing before. Let's go to maybe even two on this one, one on this one, and now let's use a while loop to spawn the rest of these. So, what we're going to do is say let i equal and we're starting at uh radius 7. So, we're going to say it equals six. And then we're going to say while I is less than uh or while excuse me while I is greater than zero curly brace. And so if I is greater than zero we want to start by waiting shift alt f then we want to spawn. And [clears throat] what we want to change is a few different values. So we have our y position. this needs to go up. So if we have six, we know that this is the inverse of what we want. Um, so let's see what's the easiest way to do this. Um, we could just flip it, but really this six is what goes into this spot right here. Um, and then we know that the larger this number is, the more blocks we want. So we want it to get down to basically like one block on the end. So we take I and multiply it. Um and if we want to go like say 36, 6 * 6 is 36. So maybe we say I * 6. So it decreases by six blocks every time. Um so this is our radius. This is supposed to be an I, isn't it? Yep. So this is our radius. This is our um number of blocks. This is our randomness. We're going to keep this. And as there's less blocks, it should be harder. The block height, I think, can go slightly less. So, this Y position, we're going to have to come back to that. Um, but the block height, I think we can drop that down to two. Keep the multiplier higher, 2.5. Um, did we already change the multiplier to be higher? I don't know. We'll just go higher. What? What the heck? It could couldn't be more than fun. Um, we can always change it later. So then we spawn a circle. This height though, because this is reversed, I have to do the math backwards in my head. So we start at six. So we say parenthesis um six and we minus I. So now it starts at zero. And um we really want to then start at one. So we start at five. Five minus I. And um that's actually negative 1. We want to start at seven. So 7 - i. 7 - i is 1. And so then at one, we want to add something to this. So we're just going to go plus because this is the height. And we're just going to add two. So we multiply this by two. So it goes up by two every single time. And save. Am I missing anything? That's going to go Oh, we need I++. [laughter] Um, let's go. I ++. All right. So, that should just keep getting taller until it reaches the end. Um, we'll say added rest of the mountain. Oh, we didn't change the color. So, we'll leave a comment that says need to adjust color as it gets higher. Let's see if we can do that real quick. I can't imagine it'd be too difficult. So um what we need to do is say constant color base equals um zero we got I which starts at six. So this is kind of that same reverse. So we need to reverse it for everything. Command X. Um we'll say counter constant counter equals this. That's just how many we've counted through. And so this counter goes here. And then the color base says counter. So as the counter gets higher, the darker it needs to get. So we take the counter and we divide it by seven. Sure, that'll work. So that'll give us a number that doesn't ever hit zero. And then that number is going to start small and get bigger. So actually this is the reverse of what we need. So we just say if we actually switch this back to I I over 7 starts at a pretty large value and then gets darker but we want it to be kind of like 0.5 to start maybe 0.25. So they're pretty dark rocks and they just get bigger and darker and darker. Um so our color base is pretty dark. And then our color multiplier is it needs to be kind of like not too random. So like 0.15. Um I really wanted the top to be white. So we could change this with like an if I is then make it bright white. But we're just going to we just need maybe leave a note to say white at the top. Okay. Collapse this. So color base and color multiplier are just going to be placed in for these two, these two, and these two. We're just going to use the same values. So color base color multiplier and then copy paste command C one two there we go shift alt F command save okay added rest of the mountain commit sync changes all right wish me luck this is a little scary [laughter] is this the rest of the mountain I don't know um I forgot to look where the entrance. We [clears throat] did the whole thing and I forgot to look for where the entrance of the cave was. It must have been good because I didn't think about it. Okay, [snorts] spawn in. And then I'm looking forward. I'm looking for the cave entrance. Looking for the cave entrance. Looking for the cave entrance. Looking for the cave entrance. And okay, it's not there. And that clearly went down rather than up. In fact, oh, it's still building. Oh, that's not good. We might need to shut this down. It's still going. I've definitely done some math wrong because it doesn't seem like it's stopping. Holy Oh [laughter] no. I mean, that's going to crash the app. [laughter] Please tell me it's closed. Close the app. It didn't even close. Oh my gosh. Well then. Well then, where's where's the shock and embarrassment? [laughter] What did I do wrong? Um, I did I++. It was supposed to be I minus minus. Oh, that is so funny and so terrible. I can't believe I pulled that off so badly. Um, the colors were a little too far apart. Let's go to 05 so it's more close to just grays with slight shades. Um um oh my gosh that was crazy. The but it was really like we didn't even get to see but one layer. Correct. So but the also the circle was reversed. The cave entrance was on the wrong spot. And to do the other half is actually pretty difficult. So what we actually need to check is if it's in the middle. So we're looking for this 075 gap but only at uh 0.5. So we wrap this in parenthesis and then wrap that in parenthesis again and then copy the well no actually command C. I wanted to parenthesis around this one parenthesis and then maybe one more set of parenthesis. I know it's confusing but when I'm done it'll make sense. So we w copy this command C and then amperand. So we say and so if the alert percent is greater than 0.5 but also less than and then we actually remove the [clears throat] 0.75 here. And so we say if it's greater than 0.5 but less than 0.75 plus the 0.5 which we can just put together oursel by putting a 0.5 right there. All right, there we go. So basically we're saying if it's within this range we want it to not spawn and save. So that should move it to the other side of ex. Yeah, that works because the percent is a percentage. Okay. um fixed inverted bug and swapped um entrance location. Entrance location commit sync changes. All right, I think we might actually get to climb this mountain. It did say committed, right? It's all done. Okay, let's uh boot this up and try it out. Oh, I'm very I'm very [laughter] excited. Oh, man. Very excited. All right, so here we are. Let's go ahead and remove the UAPI since we don't actually need that. Let's go ahead and load this up. And it's transpiling. And because it's random, every time you generate it, it's a different map. Uh guys, [laughter] well, we got a preview of what it's going to look like as it goes up. And I love the colors. The colors are perfect. Um the parkour step feels good. It's a little too easy if I'm being completely honest. It needs to get a much much taller at the top, so it needs to get steeper. But uh okay, what happened to the rest of our mountain? [laughter] Okay, just a quick moment of joy. Uh, we'll take a sip of water and we'll realize that the time is now double when I said we'll just make this real simple and finish it off real easy. But I hope you're having fun. Um, I have some notes that I should probably run through u before we finish this up. So, [sighs] for those of you who are going to join us on this journey, there's um some things you need to know. Let's go to the U online alpha notes. If you find an error in our D.T, which is very very possible, um, or any error in the U API, we need you to make a very small test. If you send us your entire codebase, it's going to be really hard to like go through it. But if you find a reproducible bug, let us let us know. Um, you can go to u.online.yu.lph to um see more information. We're working on some stuff there. I should update that. I got to put on my notes. I want to add the new URL. New app URL to website. Um, this whole implementation with GitHub is temporary. It's not intentional intended to be forever. We're planning to make something much better than this. Um, but it does work pretty well. Pretty happy with that. I think the only thing I would do differently would be like the biggest change that I want to make would be to compile locally on your computer because if you're using a computer, it's going to compile a little bit faster. Um, and then that would theoretically mean like you're just like hitting play on the headset. So, there's not that that loading compilation on the headset. Um, because as we make the U API bigger, it's going to take longer and longer to compile. So, it's it's just going to get slower unfortunately. But, we'll we'll have to think about it. Well, I I guess there's a bunch of files we theoretically don't have to compile every time because they're the same, but we don't necessarily know if you're going to use the same file as us because you can actually modify the U API yourself. But also like that only happens if you're in the alpha. Like if you're alpha testing your own code, if you're um if it's a release, it doesn't have to transpile but the one time which I think you saw at the beginning when I was showing you the painting mechanic, there's no translation. Um there's currently a 10 world limit on the menu. That's not an intentional limit. It's just that's how big the menu is. So when you get 10, it says, "Sorry, there's no more room." Um, there's no intention to have a limit on the number of worlds. U, the menu isn't really planned to be improved since we're planning to replace it later. The primary path right now is via GitHub or GitHub um, tags. If you go and you can you can actually put in a URL for a zip file and it should work. We've never tested it, but it should work. So, if you did package your code up as a zip and put a URL in, um that could work, but it isn't the path that we are encouraging people to go down because you might run into errors that we're just not um going to know about. Uh and then I mentioned this the app crashing and we're trying to sort through that. We'll get that. I think that's kind of like the big things I wanted to note. Um we're going to do another Q&A at some point where we're going to get much more deep dived in. I'm going to build a bunch of little like demos like this. Um got another demo tutorial that I want to put out um building Ublocks which is basically metab blocks but in um U online. So but a lot lot simpler [sighs and gasps] but yes so uh let's get right into these final changes. What did I do wrong? I'm sure it was a simple mistake here. So we said if it doesn't have an insurance so we reverse the logic. So we need to say the not operator goes around all of this. So it's supposed to say if it doesn't pass this. So if it has an entrance, if it has an entrance, right? Do we just we just got to reverse everything? Is that it? Because that's basically where the entrance was supposed to be. Like I think we can literally just add an exclamation point, but does that affect other things? Let me run through the logic. So if it has an entrance, this comes up true which could fail it. So if it has an entrance and if it has an entrance and the alert percent is greater than so you have to have sent in the has entrance but then we also check if the alert percent is greater than 0.5 and less than 0.575 then we don't want to run this. So, we not operator it to stop it from running. That checks out in my head, but flipping this to an and rather than an or is confusing. Um, we also needed to make it taller at the top. [cough] And so, we have this counter, right? Don't we? Yep. We have the counter here. Um, and so the counter needs to affect the height. So we did counter times two. And so as it gets bigger, as it gets to the higher, it gets taller. No, is that the Oh, this is how this is linear. This isn't um h we would need this to do counter times counter. Counter times counter will now be exponential. And then if you have it starts as one 1* 1 is zero but then it gets bigger but then it gets bigger and like way too big. So we need to somehow like modify this maybe with a parenthesis and then multip like just like parenthesis is for my brain. It's not for actual math as everybody knows order of operations. Um, but I'm thinking this counter um is too big and it shouldn't ever go above two or 3x. So we need to somehow know that the highest value is six. So if we divide it by two um rather than multiply. And now counter is half as high. So counter starts as 0.5. The first go around it's 0.5 so it's a little bit shorter. We could then change this to a four. Um if we divide this by four then now it starts at 0.25 but it still gets bigger like the second time divided by four. Oh no. Let's go back to two. Okay. We'll see what that looks like. So, we're going to say fixed bug um with no no mountain [laughter] and made taller. Commit. Save all and commit changes. Sync changes. All right. And we go for that again. Moment of truth. All right. Yeah. I [sighs] mean, there's no way we're going to climb up that exponential gains, guys. But you can kind of see like it's the idea is there. The idea is there. And I think I know how to fix it. I know how to fix this. It's just a math problem, but yeah. Okay. Okay, so this is as high as you can actually parkour [laughter] and then it's like impossible. Um, oh wait, the entrance. Oh. Oh, the entrance. The entrance I forgot to turn off on the the height above. So, let's finish fix that by changing this to false. And then this math, what I needed to do is say counter + one. That's what I should have done. And then I can multiply by two rather and then counter plus one needs to be wrapped in parenthesis. So that starts it at two. So 2 over two is one which changes nothing. And then from that point forward it gets slightly higher. We might need to change it to plus let's try three. I feel like three is going to be better. And then divide by three. And then save. Um fixed cave entrance and entrance and too tall. Commit sync changes. All right. [clears throat] [laughter] Wow. Is it tall? Like so much taller than I expect. All right, that is better. Now, is it possible to get up? Oh, boy. This is this is tough. Okay. Oh, and we got little little holes here. So, we might need to change the scale. Can't can't get up. Okay. But it's a it's a it's a puzzle, so you got to find the taller pieces. All right. Right. So, we can see that it does get to the point where it's too tall to go any higher. Uh, and I think that really, you can look at it and you can see that it really just needs more math.random and more height. So, if we go to our counter here, spawn circle, our height multiplier is just two. It doesn't even change. So, what we really should do is make this counter + one. Um, that makes sense to me. And then our next value, excuse me, is our block radius start block radius multiplier. We don't need to change that. Um, but we do want to change the block height. the height. H y position. Huh. I don't know. Maybe that is good enough. Let's try it out. Um more random on block height. I wanted to change the scale. How do we do scale? [clears throat] So we say scale is the height plus height multiplier times math.random height multiplier. So I think maybe I just want to double our height multiplier. So that's the third parameter. So if we go back here we go one two. Ah this was just set to I. That makes sense. So, the height multiplier goes down. Shouldn't it go up? Let's make that the counter. Um, previously we were at seven. No, no, we weren't. We were at 2.5. What? That doesn't make sense. No, no, no. This is I grabbed the wrong value. It's this 2.5 right here. I missed it. Um, so this 2.5 plus the counter that should just make it slowly get bigger. More random on block height and taller blocks. All right, commit sync changes. All righty. Here we go. This This could be the one. Oh, okay. I noticed the last number I saw was transpilation 24. Now, that probably means that it finished transpiling, but it does kind of indicate more towards what I was thinking was the issue. All right, parkour mountain. Sorry. What I'm thinking is the issue is that um when it finishes transpiling, there's a process that might run twice. That's cool. Um, our entrance is in the [clears throat] wrong location. I'm not sure why, but we can't even get through it. Oh, no. [laughter] Because we made the blocks too tall. [sighs and gasps] Oh, that's too funny. Okay, [laughter] but it's in the wrong spot. So, that's interesting. Um, I think that's because we flipped the X and Y. So if we make this Z and this X and [cough and clears throat] that might do it. The next thing we need to change is right here. Instead of doing false we say um does I equal 6? So we'll just we'll skip one more. I triple equal 6. So if I triple equals 6, then we want to um it have that be part of it. Okay. And we're going to say taller entrance and flipped X and Z which really is their [clears throat] sign and X and Z signosine because I think I had this reversed commit. Save all sync changes. All right. Try again. All right. There it goes. The entrance. I don't know if it's in the right location. I would assume it is. And I was just rotated too much. Okay. Now, is it possible to climb this? Let's find out. Here we go. It looks like it could use a little more math random, but we're finding spots to climb up, so maybe I'm wrong. It is meant to be a challenge. Okay. Oh, shoot. Fell. Oh, I fell again. [laughter] Um, not bad. No, stop falling. [laughter] This is the uh I need no fall. I need no fall brain. What is that called? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um, guess I'm gonna have to call it there. I gotta run. But this is pretty good. It's pretty good. [sighs and gasps] Yeah. Okay. [laughter] [gasps] Well, I gota I got to say I got to say goodbye, but I will catch you in the next one. Bye.